- [Instructor] Now let us understand the steps
that we need to take in order to set up
this entire Servlet JSP application in Eclipse IDE.
There are a number of things that we need to do
and we're going to see them step by step.
The first one among them is configure
a dynamic web project in Eclipse IDE.
So that's the first step.
Let's go to Eclipse and configure a dynamic web project.
So this is how your Eclipse looks like
and those are the panes that you can work on with.
I'm going to go to the navigator pane,
right-click, and create a new dynamic web project.
That's the option you need to choose
in order to make a web application.
Let's give it a name.
Let's say sample project.
Now for the name should follow the naming conventions
that have been proposed by Java for the project name.
Then there's a target run time here
which is currently set to none.
Target run time is essentially the server
that the project is going to be hosted on.
Right now we don't have any servers inside Eclipse,
that's why it's set to none, which is fine,
and the dynamic web model version is 3.0.
You're going to stick to this version for this course
however if you want to leverage any other feature
of 3.1 version, you can choose that through this option.
Let's click on next.
We see the SRC folder here
which is going to have all your .java files
and when they get compiled they're going to be placed
under the build slash classes folder.
Now if you want to add any other source folder you can just
click on the add folder button here and do the rest.
Let's click on next.
It shows a couple of more options,
content root, which of course is the name of your project
and that is always the root folder of your app
and content directory, which is web content,
which basically contains all the HTML CSS's,
the JavaScript files, and even the XML's.
Now, the web model version number 3.0 allows you
to do all the configuration via the annotations approach.
However, in this course we are going to see
some of the XML configuration as well
for which I will need this web.xml deployment descriptor
so I'm going to check this option and then click on finish.
So when I do this my entire project structure
for the web application has generated here.
You have the SRC, you have the web content
under which you have meta INF, web INF.
Meta INF is just the meta of the application
that Eclipse takes care of
and web INF if web information under which
you further have a lib folder and a web.xml file.
The lib folder is going to contain all the jar files
that are necessary to be integrated with this application.
That really depends on the kind of API's
that you want to integrate with this app.
Sources, of course, the source folder
and let me also do one more thing.
Under this web content I'm going to make a folder
for all the HTML files
and another folder for all the CSS files.
Right, so those folders are ready.
So this is overall how
the web application project structure looks like.
Now, let's go to the next step.
The next step would be to set up
an instance of Apache Tomcat server in Eclipse IDE.
So let's go to Eclipse.
This is the project that is ready with us,
but we need to host this application on our server.
Now for that we need a server.
We've already downloaded the server software
and extracted it to an appropriate folder on the machine.
So this is how it looks like.
The place where all these folders begin;
the bin, conf, lib, logs, et cetera,
that part is called Tomcat home.
So now we need to set up this server instance
inside our Eclipse IDE because Eclipse IDE is going to be
one single stop for our entire development activity.
So let's go there and set up the Tomcat server.
For that, you would need the servers view
which is already here.
If you're not able to see this view
you can just go to window, show view,
and then select the option of servers,
you'll be able to see this view.
Now let's click on this link to create a server.
It will show you all the possible options
that you have in order to choose server.
It has got a range of options
starting from Apache to IBM, et cetera.
You just have to choose
the appropriate version that you want.
I'm going to say Apache Tomcat 7.0 and click on next.
So once you click, you'll get this pop-up.
It's going to ask you for the Tomcat installation directory.
We already know that the Tomcat
has been installed at this spot.
We have to pick this Tomcat home part, copy,
and then paste it under the Tomcat installation directory,
and then click next.
Now, all it does is,
it actually shows you a couple of panes.
One is available and one is configured.
Available is going to show you all the projects
that you could possible deploy on this server.
Configured pane however shows you
all those kinds of projects
which are running on your server at this point in time.
We just have to click on finish
and your server instance is now ready inside of Eclipse IDE.
Let's look at the next step.
Next step, we need to set up the build path of the project,
add all the servlet and JSP API libraries.
So let's understand that what it means.
This is a Java enterprise edition project.
Whenever you make a normal core Java project
inside of Eclipse IDE,
the entire set of Java standard edition API's
are always integrated with it,
but now that this is an enterprise edition project
the servlet and the JSP specification API
is not in built into this.
We need to add it on to this project.
For that we will have to download the servlet
and JSP API jar files, java archives,
and add them to the build path of this project.
Fortunately we don't have to download them right now.
The Tomcat server already has all of the jar files inside
so let's understand that.
There's a lib folder inside the Tomcat server folder,
we just go to all jar files.
So do you see the servlet API jar here
and the JSP API jar there?
So those are the ones we need
in addition to all the other ones.
So what we're going to do is,
we're going to take all these jars through the server
and then add it on to the build path of our project.
Let's understand how to do that.
Let's go back to Eclipse.
In order to do that setting,
you right-click on this project, go to properties,
and there are four tabs here under the option
of Java build path, that is what you have to choose.
Go under the libraries tab
and you just have to click on add library.
Now you have a lot of options to choose from
out of which I'm going to pick server run time
because I want to add the libraries
from the server software.
So let's click on next and now it is going to list out
all the servers that you have ever configured
on this workspace of Eclipse.
I'm just going to select that and click on finish.
So now if you see the entire set of jar files
from the server is available
on the build path of my project.
We just have to click on apply
and click on okay and we are done.